So we managed to open and close our modal,
now let me show you another way of doing that.
We could also add a new class,
let's name it open maybe and I'll add it to the shared.css file at the very bottom because it's not limited
to the mobile navigation. Open could set display to block
and now if we analyze our shared.js code, we actually can see that we always set our display
style to block or to none which for all the cases is the default of our CSS classes anyways.
So for the backdrop for example or the modal, display is none, the same for the backdrop, display is none by
default.
So we actually only need a second class, the open class which switches it to block when needed
and now we will just need to add this class via Javascript whenever we need to change the style.
This is what I want to show you now,
so for that we still need to select the elements, we still need to add listeners but we won't edit the
styles like this,
let me remove that or comment it out so that we still have it for reference,
instead we can access modal and then there is a class name property. Now class name actually is
a string which holds the same value as our class attribute here does,
so if we have one or more class here, it will still be one string with the words separated by whitespace,
just as we have it here.
Now we could change class name to open,
the problem with that is it would then really put class equal to open
and if we had other classes that shouldn't be removed, like for example for our backdrop, we don't want
to get rid of the backdrop class, we just want to add the open class, then with this approach, we would
actually overwrite it.
Now this div class backdrop would become div class open, not necessarily what we want
and the same for the modal here in this case actually.
So let me comment this out and add a comment here,
this will actually overwrite the complete class list and that already gives us a hint.
We can think of our classes on an element as a list of classes,
so it would be nice if we had an easy way of adding and removing elements to and from that list.
Now we can do that with another property,
the class list property. This is an object which provides some helper methods, as you can see here,
like for example for checking if it contains a certain class, this can be used in if conditions, for
adding a class or for removing a class or even for toggling a class which will automatically remove
it if it's active or added if it is not active.
Now you can work with toggle here,
I will use add and remove
and here in this case I want to add a class, the open class, without a dot at the beginning,
just a name and this will add a CSS class open to the modal and this is great because we got an open
class which will set all the styles we want to set.
This allows us to still access our or write our styles in stylesheets and then control the attachment
of that class with Javascript. Now I'll copy that and do the same for the backdrop. With that if we change
that and we reload our page, if we click choose plan, we still open the backdrop but the modal actually doesn't
show up.
The reason for this is that the open class is added but it's overwritten by the modal class
and the reason for that is really that we defined the open class in the shared.css file whereas we have
the modal class in the main.css file which is imported as a second file and therefore as you
learned, this overwrites any styles with the same specificity that were defined earlier, like for our open
class.
So what we can do and here this really is OK, we can add important here,
I told you that you shouldn't really use this to overwrite specificity but here it's ok because
this really is a class that we only add when it should take absolute priority. Another solution would
be to simply reposition the modal class in front of the open class
but I think this approach is really OK here too.
So with that if we save that and reload,
now we actually see the modal too.
We can't get rid of it though because we now got important on our display property,
maybe one downside you could say but we want to get rid of it in another way
anyways, I want to go to my close modal function here and not set the styles with the old approach
but instead use my class lists again and simply remove the open class with this code
and the same for the backdrop.
Now with that if we save again and we reload, we can open our modal and close it, just like that
but this time if you watch here on the right, you'll see that not the inline styles get edited but the class
list gets edited automatically simply by running the add and remove commands on the class list.
Of course, we can do the same for the mobile nav. We can comment it out here and use mobile nav class
list remove open here because that's the backdrop click, we want to close it here
but also down there on the toggle button, there I actually want to call add and the same of course for
the backdrop.
Now if we reload, we can actually open the modal still and also the side menu,
this all works just nice now.
So with that, we're using a different approach, the class list and that is the other great and important way you
have of editing elements.